INTRODUCTION. lvii

and evaded compliance. He was then

peremptorily summoned to appear at a
general Council held before John Earl of

Moteton, at Loddon Bridge, between
Reading and Windsor.

John was supported by almost all the
Bishops, Earn, and Baronage of the King-
dom. They readily attended this great
meeting, for which' special writs had been
issued by Earl John, in regular parliamen-
lusy form. The Chief Justiciar did not ap·
pear, nor any one on his behalf. Richard

Biset, who adheredtoLnngchamp, brought ,

him the news that John intended to seize
the city of London. Some chroniclers
state that John certainly was preparing to
proceed to the City. Ricardus Divisiensis
says, that this intelligence was erroneous.
Whether true or false, Longchamp deter-
mined to preoccupy the station, and
hastened to London, requiring the Citizens
to close their gates against the Earl. But
Geoffry, the Archbishop of York‚ was

beforehand, and had egged on the Lon-
doners to resistancez and when summoned

by Longchamp‚ they declared that they
would not obey a traitor and disturbatos

the puhhc peace. Longchamp then took

oefisge in the Tower, which was closely
blockaded hythe Citizens both by land

and by water.

 

