INTRODUCTION. xxix

Church property was considered as herit-
able and belonging to particular familias, ,
had subsisted of old time. In lreland the
usage was already very antient, and long
established before the eleventhcentury. The
Arehbishoprick of Armagh‚ previously to
the election of St. Malachi‚ continued here-
ditary in one sept during lilleen generations.
And so entirely was the archiepiscopal en-
dovment converted into lay fee, that the
eight last Bishops had not even received
holy orders. Such being the usage with
respect to the Primate os tlre Irish Church,

it cannot be doubted but that the inferior ‘

members of the hierarchy enjoyed tlre same
privilege. Amongst the Armorican Bretons‚
an hereditary succession ‘in the Church
equally prevailed. Theobald, theson of a
Priest, having obtained the Bishopriek of
Rennes, married the daughter of the Arch-
deacon of Nautes. When he grew old, he
retired to the Abbey ol St. Melanius‚ and

gave the Bishopriclr to his son Walter, and
Walter in his turn gave itto his son Warine.

, These are perhaps instances ratherus a
right of alienation than of inhesitance: but

Duhe Cnnan expressly attests that a pa·
rochial church had been granted by his
predecessors, by homage, to marriedClerks
and their sons, “jure hereditari0.''

In Italy, during the tenth century, Ra-

therius Bishop of Verona, alter vainly at·

 

